When the Department knows in advance that a lack of available
work or funds may pose problems for a promotion,
the Department should notify the affected Employee before the
end-of-year discussion.
This would be the end of the Employee's year in grade.
For example, the Employee could be eligible for promotion in
April even though the performance year ends on September 30th.
The Department will discuss the rationale for not promoting the
Employee based on work constraints,
funding constraints, or both, with the Employee and the Local Union.
Within seven calendar days, the Department will also provide the
Employee and the Local with a written notice explaining why
the Employee is not going to be promoted.